---
layout: post
title: Research Fellows in Audio Source Separation and Perceptual Audio Evaluation
categories: Advert
---

University of Surrey, UK
Salary:  GBP 30,688 to GBP 38,833 per annum
Closing Date:  24 January 2018

Applications are invited for two Research Fellow posts:

- Research Fellow in [Source Separation for Musical Audio Repurposing](http://jobs.surrey.ac.uk/107017) (Ref: 107017)

- Research Fellow in [Perceptual Audio Evaluation](http://jobs.surrey.ac.uk/107117) (Ref: 107117)

These are to work full-time on an EPSRC funded project “Musical Audio
Repurposing using Source Separation” from 1 February 2018 to 31 July 2018. This
project is tackling the challenge of high quality musical audio repurposing,
focussing on soloing, desoloing, remixing and upmixing. The project is
investigating new methods for musical audio source separation, in parallel with
investigating new perceptual evaluation measures for audio source separation.

## Research Fellow in Source Separation for Musical Audio Repurposing

The candidate will be responsible for investigating and developing new and
enhanced methods for high quality musical audio source separation. These may
include methods based on deep learning, score-informed musical source
separation, non-negative matrix factorisation (NMF), and interactive methods
employing user feedback. The candidate will be working as part of a team, with
other researchers focussing on perceptual evaluation methods and software
development of open-source research tools.

The successful applicant is expected to have a PhD in electronic engineering,
computer science or a related subject, and is expected to have research
experience in audio signal processing and machine learning. Research experience
in one or more of the following is desirable: audio source separation, audio
upmixing, musical audio processing, non-negative matrix factorization (NMF)
and/or deep learning. Experience in programming in one or more of Max/MSP,
PureData, Python, C++ and/or MATLAB will be an advantage, as will academic
publications in a relevant area.

## Research Fellow in Perceptual Audio Evaluation

The candidate will be responsible for perceptually evaluating the results of
musical audio separation and repurposing. This will involve preparing and
conducting subjective experiments, analysing the results, and comparing these
with extant metrics and perceptual models. The candidate will make use of the
resulting data to either refine or develop new metrics or perceptual models to
aid the development and evaluation of musical source separation and repurposing
algorithms.

The successful applicant will have undertaken doctoral level research in
experimental/applied psychoacoustics or similar and will have expertise in
psychoacoustics, with an understanding of factors likely to be related to source
separation and audio repurposing. Skills in and experience of the following are
essential: the design and execution of listening-based subjective experiments;
and statistical analysis and modeling. Also essential are strong writing skills
for audiences of varying levels of technical expertise, and the ability to work
independently and manage time effectively. A background in programming in one or
more of Max/MSP, PureData, Python, C++ and/or MATLAB will be an advantage.
Specific skills in source separation and audio repurposing and the development
of related perceptual models will also be an advantage, as will academic
publications in a relevant area.

## MARuSS

The project is led by Prof Mark Plumbley in the Machine Audition Lab of the
Centre for Vision Speech and Signal Processing (CVSSP), and this posts will be
jointly supervised by Dr Russell Mason in the Institute of Sound Recording
(IoSR).

CVSSP is one of the largest groups of its type in the UK, with over 120 active
researchers working in the areas of vision, image processing, and audio, and a
grant portfolio of over £12M. The Centre has state-of-the-art acoustic capture
and analysis facilities enabling research into audio source separation, music
transcription and spatial audio, and video and audio capture facilities
supporting research in real-time video and audio processing and visualisation.
The IoSR is a leading centre for research in psychoacoustic engineering, as well
as being home to the Tonmeister undergraduate degree programme. It has a focused
team of 12 researchers, plus several industrial collaborators, and a range of
professional facilities of the highest standards, including three recording
studios and an ITU-R BS 1116 standard critical listening room.

Informal enquires are welcome, to: Prof Mark Plumbley
([m.plumbley@surrey.ac.uk](mailto:m.plumbley@surrey.ac.uk))
or Dr Russell Mason ([r.mason@surrey.ac.uk](mailto:r.mason@surrey.ac.uk)).

For more information and to apply online, please visit: 

- Research Fellow in [Source Separation for Musical Audio Repurposing](http://jobs.surrey.ac.uk/107017) (Ref: 107017)

- Research Fellow in [Perceptual Audio Evaluation](http://jobs.surrey.ac.uk/107117) (Ref: 107117)

We acknowledge, understand and embrace diversity.

---
See also: Research Fellow in [Audio Signal Processing](http://jobs.surrey.ac.uk/000918)
